K8s security best practices (#964)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-11-16-k8s-security-best-practices.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Secure Your Kubernetes Clusters With Best Practices"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [kubernetes, devops]
description: "What are the best practices when it comes to securing your Kubernetes clusters."
tags: [kubernetes, devops, oidc, okta]
tweets:
  - "Is your Kubernetes cluster secure? let's take a look at the security best practices for #k8s"
  - "Don't let your Kubernetes clusters be the weak link. Check out these best practices for securing your #Kubernetes clusters"
type: awareness
image: blog/k8s-security-best-practices/social.jpg
---

> Kubernetes has become an unavoidable part of a software infrastructure these days. If you are an enterprise or medium/large company, the chances are that you are already running Kubernetes clusters for your workloads. If you are a DevOps engineer, there is a high chance you are maintaining either an on-prem Kubernetes cluster or a PaaS like Amazon EKS, Microsoft AKS, or GKE. But regardless of how you run your Kubernetes clusters, you need to make sure that your clusters are secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes has become an unavoidable part of a software infrastructure these days. If you are an enterprise or medium/large company, chances are you are already running Kubernetes clusters for your workloads. If you are a DevOps engineer, there is a good chance you are maintaining either an on-prem Kubernetes cluster or a PaaS like Amazon EKS, Microsoft AKS, or GKE. But regardless of how you run your Kubernetes clusters, you need to make sure that they are secure.
```
refining the idioms

The Kubernetes API server has multiple layers of security.

> 1. [**Transport security**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access/): All API communication is done via TLS using valid certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [**Transport security**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access/): All API communication is done via TLS (transport layer security) using valid certificates.
```
spell out the acronym

2. [**Authentication**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/): All API requests are authenticated with one of the several authentication mechanisms supported by Kubernetes.
3. [**Authorization**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/): All authenticated requests are authorized using one or more of the supported authorization models.
4. [**Admission control**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/): All authorized requests, except read/get requests, are validated by admission control modules.

Kubernetes comes with many security options out of the box, but to bulletproof your infrastructure, you need to consider many more security best practices. Today we will look into some of the vital security best practices for Kubernetes.

## 1. Use Kubernetes Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

> Kubernetes supports multiple authorization models for its API server. These are [ABAC (Attributed-Based Access Control)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/), [RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/), [Node authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/node/) and the [Webhook mode](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/). Out of all these, RBAC is the most secure and most widely used and is ideal for enterprises and medium to large organizations. With RBAC, you can define role-based access control that closely resembles your organization's business rules. RBAC also works great with OIDC authentication.

Reviewer 2: nit: clarify "most secure". for instance, easier to ensure access is appropriate? has fewer known vulnerabilities? etc. 

we have an existing blog on the difference, https://www.okta.com/identity-101/role-based-access-control-vs-attribute-based-access-control/, which might be relevant but doesn't actually make a strong case for why RBAC is better

Author: Its based on the Kubernetes recomendation https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/04/rbac-support-in-kubernetes/ and I didn't want to go into the weeds of it as currently the state of ABAC is not very clear IMO, as its not officially deprecated but its also not focused

> Most Kubernetes distributions have RBAC enabled by default. If not, you can enable it using the `--authorization-mode` flag for the API server when creating or patching the cluster. For example, setting `--authorization-mode=RBAC,Node` will enable both RBAC and Node authorization on the cluster.

Reviewer 2: nit: mention how to check whether it's enabled -- maybe this is just if role creation fails, otherwise they might need something like `$ kubectl cluster-info dump | grep authorization-mode`. This could also be addressed by reordering sentences in this paragraph and the next: 

"Most distros have rbac enabled. When rbac is enabled, here's how to create roles. If this fails due to rbac not enabled, enable it like so. Here's an example of an rbac role"

## 3. Use Secrets for all sensitive data with appropriate access

This one should be a no-brainer. Kubernetes has a [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret) resource that can be used to store sensitive data. This is a great way to store passwords, keys, and other sensitive data. Secrets can be used for storing string data, docker config, certificates, tokens, files, and so on. Secrets can be mounted as data volumes or exposed as environment variables to be used in containers. Secrets can be plain text or encoded, but please don't be that person who uses plain text secrets.

Secrets are flexible and native to Kubernetes, so there is no reason for you not to use them. Also, make sure to implement proper RBAC for secrets so that not everyone has access to them.

## 4. Keep Kubernetes version up to date

> Like any other software, Kubernetes also has bugs and issues. And from time to time, there might be a high severity bug that calls for a [CVE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerabilities_and_Exposures). Hence, it's an excellent idea to keep the Kubernetes version up-to-date on the server and the CLI client. If you are using a managed PaaS, it should be pretty easy to upgrade, and for on-prem installations, there are tools like [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/), [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), and so on, that makes it easy to upgrade clusters.

Reviewer 2: optional: could be helpful to include https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/issues-security/security/ in here for those who might not think to search it to find the disclosure list

> Like any other software, Kubernetes also has bugs and issues. And from time to time, there might be a high severity bug that calls for a [CVE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerabilities_and_Exposures). Hence, it's an excellent idea to keep the Kubernetes version up-to-date on the server and the CLI client. If you are using a managed PaaS, it should be pretty easy to upgrade, and for on-prem installations, there are tools like [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/), [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), and so on, that makes it easy to upgrade clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like any other software, Kubernetes also has bugs and issues. And from time to time, there might be a high severity bug that calls for a [CVE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerabilities_and_Exposures). Hence, it's an excellent idea to keep the Kubernetes version up to date on the server and the CLI client. If you are using a managed PaaS, it should be pretty easy to upgrade, and for on-prem installations, there are tools like [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/), [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), and so on, that makes it easy to upgrade clusters.
```
hyphens are only required when it's used as an adjective describing the noun (e.g. "an up-to-date cluster")

## 5. Restrict kubelet, API, and SSH access

> [kubelet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/) is the primary "node agent" running on each node, and by default, a kubelet's HTTP endpoints are not secured. This could be an issue and hence [should be restricted](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-authentication-authorization/).

Reviewer 2: `s/be an issue/allow unintended access/` ?

> When someone has access to a Kubernetes cluster, they can access the k8s API server and SSH into the cluster nodes themselves. Ideally, this should be limited as much as possible. Disable SSH access to non-admin users. Secure the API server using OIDC and RBAC, as we saw earlier so that only authenticated users with sufficient roles can access the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When someone has access to a Kubernetes cluster, they can access the k8s API server and SSH into the cluster nodes themselves. To limit node access, cluster access should be limited as much as possible. Disable SSH access for non-admin users. Secure the API server using OIDC and RBAC, as we saw earlier, so that only authenticated users with sufficient roles can access the API.
```

> When someone has access to a Kubernetes cluster, they can access the k8s API server and SSH into the cluster nodes themselves. Ideally, this should be limited as much as possible. Disable SSH access to non-admin users. Secure the API server using OIDC and RBAC, as we saw earlier so that only authenticated users with sufficient roles can access the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When someone has access to a Kubernetes cluster, they can access the k8s API server and SSH into the cluster nodes themselves. Ideally, this should be limited as much as possible. Disable SSH access to non-admin users. Secure the API server using OIDC and RBAC, as we saw earlier so that only authenticated users with sufficient roles can access the API.
```
```suggestion
When someone has access to a Kubernetes cluster, they can access the k8s API server and SSH into the cluster nodes themselves. Ideally, this should be limited as much as possible. Disable SSH access to non-admin users. Secure the API server using OIDC and RBAC, as we saw earlier, so that only authenticated users with sufficient roles can access the API.
```
clarifying comma

Author: updated

## 6. Secure container images

Securing the container images that run on the cluster is as important as securing the cluster itself. A malicious image running on a cluster could wreak havoc. Follow these best practices for container image security.

> - Do not run containers as root as this would give the container unlimited access to the host. Always run the containers using a non-root user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not run containers as root as this would give the container unlimited access to the host. Always run the containers using a non-root user.
```

> - Enable container image scanning in your CI/CD phase to catch known vulnerabilities using tools like [clair](https://github.com/quay/clair) or [Anchore](https://github.com/anchore/anchore-engine)

Reviewer 2: nice! would it be suitable to plug jfrog xray here too?

> - Enable container image scanning in your CI/CD phase to catch known vulnerabilities using tools like [clair](https://github.com/quay/clair) or [Anchore](https://github.com/anchore/anchore-engine)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable container image scanning in your CI/CD phase to catch known vulnerabilities using tools like [clair](https://github.com/quay/clair) or [Anchore](https://github.com/anchore/anchore-engine).
```

> - Use minimal up to date official base images and remove all unwanted dependencies, packages, and debugging tools from the image as it will make it more secure and lightweight

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use minimal up-to-date official base images and remove all unwanted dependencies, packages, and debugging tools from the image as it will make it more secure and lightweight.
```
added hyphens to adjective, added periods for full sentence items in the bulleted list.

- Prevent loading unwanted kernel modules in the containers. These can be restricted using rules in `/etc/modprobe.d/kubernetes-blacklist.conf` of the node or by uninstalling the unwanted modules from the node.
- Use [official verified images](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/official_images/) for popular software. Use a trusted registry for non-official images and always verify the image publisher
- Use [Docker Bench for Security](https://github.com/docker/docker-bench-security) to audit your container images
- Use [Pod security policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) to limit a container's access to the host further

You can read more about it in our "[Container Security: A Developer Guide](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/07/18/container-security-a-developer-guide)".

## 7. Control traffic between pods and clusters

> Generally, pods within the same cluster will be able to communicate with each other, and if you have multiple clusters in the same network, there may be traffic between them as well. Do not let this all open, as it could lead to a compromised cluster when another in the network is affected. Use [Kubernetes network policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) to control traffic between pods and clusters and allow only necessary traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, pods within the same cluster will be able to communicate with each other, and if you have multiple clusters in the same network, there may be traffic between them as well. Do not leave this all open, as it could lead to a compromised cluster when another in the network is affected. Use [Kubernetes network policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) to control traffic between pods and clusters and allow only necessary traffic.
```

> Generally, pods within the same cluster will be able to communicate with each other, and if you have multiple clusters in the same network, there may be traffic between them as well. Do not let this all open, as it could lead to a compromised cluster when another in the network is affected. Use [Kubernetes network policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) to control traffic between pods and clusters and allow only necessary traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, pods within the same cluster will be able to communicate with each other, and if you have multiple clusters in the same network, there may be traffic between them as well. Do not leave this all open, as it could lead to a compromised cluster when another in the network is affected. Use [Kubernetes network policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) to control traffic between pods and clusters and allow only necessary traffic.
```
idiom

## 8. Use namespaces to isolate workloads

> Do not run all your workloads in a single namespace. Isolating workloads in different namespaces based on business needs will make it more secure and easier to manage with RBAC. This way, you can fine-tune RBAC even further to let users access only what they need to see. You can also use Kubernetes network policies to isolate traffic between namespaces where applicable.

Reviewer 2: "if you run all your workloads in a single namespace, granting a user access to one workload will let them access all workloads" or similar?

> Do not run all your workloads in a single namespace. Isolating workloads in different namespaces based on business needs will make it more secure and easier to manage with RBAC. This way, you can fine-tune RBAC even further to let users access only what they need to see. You can also use Kubernetes network policies to isolate traffic between namespaces where applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not run all your workloads in a single namespace. Isolating workloads in different namespaces based on business needs is more secure and easier to manage with RBAC. This way, you can fine-tune RBAC even further to let users access only what they need to see. You can also use Kubernetes network policies to isolate traffic between namespaces where applicable.
```
clarifying, otherwise it is unclear what the "it" refers to.

## 9. Limit resource usages

> As with securing APIs and the cluster itself, it is also essential to set resource limits on how much CPU, memory, and persistent disk space is used by namespaces and resources. This secures your cluster from denial of service attacks when a particular container uses up all the resources. [Resources quotas](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/) and [limit ranges](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/memory-default-namespace/) can be used to set limits at the namespace level, and [Requests and limits](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) can be used to set resource limits at container level as well.

Reviewer 2: :+100:

## 10. Use monitoring tools to monitor all traffic and enable audit logging

> Finally, it is also extremely important to monitor and audit your clusters. [Enable audit logging for the cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/audit/) and use monitoring tools to keep an eye on the networking traffic to, from and within a cluster. Monitoring can be done using open-source tools, like Prometheus, Grafana, or with proprietary tools.

Reviewer 2: got any suggestions about audit cadence?

Author: I'm not too familiar with that so probably not the right person to give advice on that. If you have something in mind, do suggest

## Bonus

> Furthermore, keep these tips also in mind when securing your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, keep these infrastructure best practices also in mind when securing your Kubernetes cluster.
```

> - Ensure that all communication is done via TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that all communication is done via TLS.
```

> - Protect etcd with TLS, Firewall, and Encryption and restrict access to it using strong credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Protect etcd with TLS, Firewall, and Encryption and restrict access to it using strong credentials.
```

> - Set up IAM access policies in a supported environment like a PaaS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up IAM access policies in a supported environment like a PaaS.
```

> - [Secure the Kubernetes Control Plane](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2021/08/20/how-to-secure-your-kubernetes-control-plane-and-node-components/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Secure the Kubernetes control plane](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2021/08/20/how-to-secure-your-kubernetes-control-plane-and-node-components/).
```

Author: Kubernetes docs write control plane capitalized, so I'm gonna leave it like that. Let me know if you disagree

> - Rotate infrastructure credentials frequently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rotate infrastructure credentials frequently.
```
